# Intro to DH

This course is a hands-on introduction to the history, theory, and practice of the digital humanities. In the humanities, we study how cultural context shapes how we create, understand, and interact with artifacts and systems. The digital in digital humanities signals two primary shifts in this framework: (1) attention to how cultural context shapes how we create, understand, and interact with digital artifacts and digital systems, and (2) digital inquiry into how cultural context shapes how we create, understand, and interact with artifacts and systems. This course engages both modes through a study of the digital humanities in its critical, archival, empirical, interventional, and experimental variants. The readings and assignments are designed to help students learn to evaluate the nature of digital humanities artifacts, projects, and scholarship through project-based exercises in creating and interpreting digital humanities resources, and a close (and critical) look at the infrastructural, institutional, and political issues involved in digital creation, analysis, dissemination, and preservation. As we look at the concepts, methods, and theories of digital humanities through the perspective of practice, we will not only consider how computational methods are being used to further humanities research and teaching but how the humanities can deepen our understanding of computational methods and infrastructures.

# Assignments 

During this class, students will prepare and deliver a digital humanities technology demonstration (20%) and complete a three-deliverable project that includes: (1) an annotated bibliography (20%), (2) a project proposal (20%), and (3) a project report (40%). The annotated bibliography will provide each student with a foundational and discipline-specific set of resources related to the digital humanities. Subsequently, students will be asked to design and develop a project grounded in one of the following focal areas: scholarly digital humanities, pedagogical digital humanities, or public digital humanities. Specific requirements for each assignment will be based on each student’s declared focal area and individual educational/professionalization goals. 

# Texts

Course readings will include *Data Feminism, Catherine D’Ignazio and Lauren F. Klien; *Debates in the Digital Humanities 2019, Matthew K. Gold and Lauren F. Klien (Eds.); Distant Horizons, Ted Underwood; Race After Technology, Ruha Benjamin; Rhetoric and the Digital Humanities, Jim Ridolfo & Bill Hart-Davidson (Eds.); *Supervised Machine Learning for Text Analysis in R, Emil Hvitfeldt and Julia Silge; *Text Mining with R: A Tidy Approach, Julia Silge and David Robinson and additional article-length readings provided on Canvas. Free open access versions are available for texts marked with an asterisk. 